0. INTRODUCTION
This is a port and cleanup of my bash debugger bashdb
(http://bashdb.sf.net). 

The command syntax generally follows that of the GNU debugger gdb.

However this debugger depends on a number bug fixes and of debugging
support features that are neither part of the POSIX 1003.1 standard
and are not in current "stable" zsh releases. In particular, the
"functrace" function should always report filenames and absolute line
numbers.  Also both "functrace" and "funcstack" should include
source'd files in their arrays.

1. SETUP

Although debuggers are useful for novice, right now code setup is not
really but novices. Some assembly is required. 

To get the code, install git and run in a zsh shell:

  git-clone git://github.com/rocky/zshdb.git
  cd zshdb
  ./autogen.sh  # Add configure options. See ./configure --help 

If you've got a suitable zsh installed, then
  make && make test

To simplify demonstration/testing there is a little program testing.sh
in the same directory zshdb lives in the source code which gets run
when zshdb is run without any options. so to run this demo code:
  ./zshdb # in the zshdb project

Or try on a real program such as perhaps:
  ./zshdb /etc/zsh/zshrc # substitute .../zshrc with your favorite zsh script

If you are happy (which I doubt), install via:
  sudo make install

and uninstall with 
  sudo make uninstall # ;-)

See INSTALL for generic configure installation instructions.

2. WHAT'S HERE, WHAT'S NOT and WHY NOT

Usually when folks write programs such as a debugger, initially there
will be a number of useful commands minimally done. Since I sort of
know where I want to wind up (somewhere along the lines of bashdb),
initially I've been focusing on the skeleton and framework rather than
the features no matter how useful they may be. So for example, Unit
tests and a some integration tests work, even though there no command
to set breakpoints.

What's missing falls into a two categories:

  * Stuff that can be ported in a straightforward way from bashdb
  * Stuff that needs additional zsh support

Of the things which can be ported in a straight-forward way, however
some of them I want to revise and simplify. In some cases, the fact
that zsh has associative arrays simplifies code. On other cases, the
code I wrote needs refactoring and better modularization.

Writing documentation is important, but an extensive guide will have
to wait. For now one can consult the reference guide that comes with
bashdb: http://bashdb.sf.net/bashdb.html There is some minimal help to
get a list of commands and some help for each.

3. WHAT'S NOT HERE YET IN DETAIL

3.a) source listing commands

Commands to list the source code and show the command that is about to
be run is missing. There are a couple reasons for this. First, I use
the emacs interface and that shows me source code lines. To use this:

  M-x load-library (with zshdb/emacs/zshdb.el in source)
  M-x zshdb (name of program when prompted)

The other reason listing is not around is that bash doesn't have
assocative arrays in 3.x and this would simplify the code. Indpendent
of that, the code needs to be modularized better. In ruby-debug and
pydb, this is its own module. Also possible is that zsh could add more
support for showing the command to be executed. Ruby has a neat
mechanism that causes the source as an array of lines to be stored
when a certain associative array is defined. Finally bashdb adds a
builtin to speed up reading files into an array. (zsh has mapfile, but
that is not enough.)

3.b) breakpoints

This is probably a straight-forward port of code from bashdb. Possibly
some simplification with associative arrays.

3.c) Showing frame arguments

Like next, this can done with or without support from zsh, albeit
faster with help from zsh. Changing scope when changing frames however
has to be done with zsh support. 

3.d) Setting $0

3.e) lots of other stuff including...

  display expressions, signal handling, invoking the debugger directly
  from a script, command history, command completion.

  None of this is rocket science. Should be pretty straight-forward to
  add.

4. WHAT MAY NEED MORE WORK AND SUPPORT FROM ZSH


4.a) next (step over function calls) 

This is implemented without additional support from zsh, but probably
debugging support would be faster with the code added to zsh.

4.b) line number information

We rely on zsh to give line numbers. In some cases the numbers can be
funky. Languages which grew up without debuggers tend to be sloppy
about tracking line number information accurately, because nobody care
about it that much, so folks don't notice. (But in truth better line
numbers also means more accurate error reporting information as well.)
 
4.c) Possibly stopping points


